Feature: Scoring & Leaderboard System

1. Overview

At the start of a new game, the player enters a name, which is stored in the game state.
When the run ends, the system calculates a final score based on player performance and stores it in a leaderboard.
The leaderboard displays scores in descending order.

2. Score Calculation

The final score is computed from the game state using the following formula:

score = 0
score += morale * 10
score -= bugs * 15
score += cash // 10
score += 100 if won else 0
score += 50 if hackathon_won else 0

Notes:
Morale increases score (positive performance)
Bugs reduce score (penalty for instability)
Cash reflects resource efficiency
Winning the game gives a significant bonus
Hackathon provides additional bonus points

3. Data Model

Each completed run is stored as a leaderboard entry:

{
  "name": "PlayerName",
  "score": 245,
  "won": true,
  "day": 12,
  "hackathon_won": true
}

4. Storage

Scores are stored in persistent storage (e.g., leaderboard.json)
Each completed game appends a new entry
Existing scores are loaded and sorted in descending order

5. Leaderboard

The system:

Retrieves all stored scores
Sorts them in descending order
Displays them to the user
6. User Flow
Player starts a new game
System prompts for player name
Name is saved in GameState
Game runs normally
At game end:
Score is calculated
Score is saved to storage
Leaderboard is displayed
A performance message is shown

7. Output

At the end of the game, the system displays:

Final score
Performance message (based on score range)
Leaderboard

Example:

Final Score: 245
Message: Strong finish — you built a solid startup.

Top Players:
1. Kay — 300
2. Hanna — 245
3. Leo — 180

8. Design Decisions

Score is calculated only at the end of the game, not accumulated during gameplay
This avoids inconsistencies and keeps the logic simple and testable
Leaderboard is stored separately from save-game data

9. Future Improvements (Optional)

Real-time score display during gameplay
More advanced scoring (e.g., time efficiency, risk-taking)
Online leaderboard

Implemented:

  - calc_score() — updated to match the formula from the design document                                                                          
  - score field removed from GameState, player_name added instead                                                                                 
  - leaderboard.py — handles save, load, formatting, and performance messages                                                                     
  - renderer.py — displays final score and leaderboard after win/lose                                                                             
  - game_loop.py — calls save_score() before showing the end screen                                                                               
  - cli.py — prompts for player name before starting a new game  


  Leaderboard is a separate persistence layer. Renderer only consumes formatted data, it doesn’t know where it comes from.

  